Blog post 4
I've been thinking about some of the technical/logistical aspects of the project- do I need cutscenes, text, voice overs?
It makes sense to have some kind of 'tutorial' in the beginning, just so players can learn about the possible interactions, or maybe just to tell them that there are interactions to discover as they progress through the environment.
Some more thoughts:
1. I've also been thinking about the idea of randomness in the experience- seeing as there is no win-state for the game, I should probably add a degree of randomness to the environment which will keep things interesting as you play, and be different every time, making each experience unique. For this, a procedural environment is a good idea (I think), maybe with some parts that I create and are constant. A procedural environment (I think I mentioned in a previous post) places objects around the player as they move and therefore randomly generates an environment in the given space. 
2. Time- again, I've mentioned this before but I'd like time to affect my environment, with different interactions in the day and night. I went to see a show by Yayoi Kusama at the New York botanical gardens. (https://www.artnews.com/art-news/news/yayoi-kusamas-narcissus-garden-the-momentary-arkansas-1202696665/)
I was struck not only by the motion of the sculpture (if that's the word) but also by the sound created by the globes being pushed together due to the breeze. I want to have a natural soundscape for the environment, perhaps more noticeable at night- when you have to focus on senses other than vision. I can probably do this by creating an air simulation which makes the wind stronger at night and therefore makes more trees sway, for example, and more collisions of objects that cause more sound for the player to hear and discover. 
3. This is still immensely overwhelming (if not more than before) so I'm starting small. I made concept art (that's a big word, let's call it a sketch) for a couple of things I might want- one's a turtle with a tiny forest of bamboo shoots as a part of its shell. It can move around in the water and plants grow on it and stuff. The skin is textured with rock camouflage. It's essentially like a live flower vase. The second one is just kind of a map or blueprint of what I want the light sources to look like- two suns and a moon(s). It would be super cool to have two sunsets and sunrises and maybe the combination of the light from each creates a different atmosphere to when there's just one in the sky. The moon is the moon, I guess? The "moon" is actually a cluster of rocks/meteors in a line that act the same way as a regular moon. 

